Öteleme|Noun false
işleminde|Noun false
kuyrukta|Noun false
bekleyen|Adj true
eleman|Noun true
yığına|Noun false
itilir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
işlemlerin|Noun false
her|Det true
birinde|Pron true
ilişkiler|Noun true
yığının|Noun false
en|Adv true
üstünde|Noun true
yer_alan|Adj true
sözcük|Noun true
ile|Conj true
kuyruğun|Noun false
en|Adv true
başında|Noun true
yer_alan|Adj true
sözcük|Noun true
arasında|Noun true
kurulmaktadır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ayrıştırma|Noun false
modeli|Noun false
,|Punc true
yığının|Noun false
en|Adv true
üstünde|Noun true
ve|Conj true
kuyruğun|Noun false
en|Adv true
başında|Noun true
bulunan|Adj true
elemanların|Noun false
özelliklerine|Noun false
bakarak|Adv true
bir|Adj true
sonraki|Adj true
hareketin|Noun false
ne|Adj true
olacağına|Noun false
karar_verir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
karar|Noun true
sırasında|Noun true
kullanılan|Adj true
özellikler|Noun false
ilgili|Adj true
elemanın|Noun false
sözcük|Noun true
bilgisi|Noun true
,|Punc true
tip|Noun true
bilgisi|Noun true
,|Punc true
o|Det true
ana|Adj true
kadar|Adv true
yapılan|Adj true
işlemler|Noun false
sonucunda|Noun true
kendisine|Pron true
bağlanmış|Noun false
olan|Adj true
bağımlı|Adj true
elemanların|Noun false
özellikleri|Noun false
veya|Conj true
komşularının|Noun false
özellikleri|Noun false
olabilir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Model|Noun false
ilk|Adj true
olarak|Adv true
,|Punc true
sözcükten|Noun false
ayrı|Adj true
yazılan|Noun false
ve|Conj true
çekim|Noun true
eklerinden|Noun false
dolayı|Postp true
oluşan|Adj true
sahip_başta|Noun false
türünde|Noun false
bağlılıkları|Noun false
bulmaya|Noun true
çalışır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Birden|Adv true
fazla|Adj true
çekim|Noun true
grubuna|Noun true
sahip_olan|Noun false
sözcükler|Noun true
içerisinde|Noun true
yer_alan|Adj true
çekim|Noun true
gruplarının|Noun false
,|Punc true
aynı|Adj true
sözcük|Noun true
içerisinde|Noun true
sağ|Adj true
taraflarında|Noun false
yer_alan|Adj true
ilk|Adj true
çekim|Noun true
grubuna|Noun true
bağlandıkları|Noun false
varsayılır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kurulan|Noun false
bu|Det true
tip|Noun true
bağlılıklar|Noun false
başarım|Noun false
ölçümünde|Noun false
puanlanmazlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
durumda|Noun true
,|Punc true
yığının|Noun false
en|Adv true
üstündeki|Adj true
elemandan|Noun false
başlanarak|Noun false
eylem|Noun false
soylu|Noun false
bir|Adj true
eleman|Noun true
bulunmaya|Noun false
çalışılır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Tarihin|Noun false
siyasi|Adj true
amaçla|Verb true
çarpıtılmasına|Noun false
dayanan|Noun false
söz|Noun true
konusu|Noun true
yasa|Noun true
tasarısı|Noun true
girişimini|Noun false
kınıyor|Noun false
ve|Conj true
reddediyoruz|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
ben|Pron true
bütün|Adj true
olaylara|Noun true
pozitif|Noun false
bakıyorum|Verb true
.|Punc true

Başarılı|Noun false
olmaya|Verb true
şartlandım|Noun false
.|Punc true

Başarısız|Noun false
olmak|Noun true
,|Punc true
zarara|Noun false
uğramak|Noun false
düşüncesi|Noun false
hayatımda|Noun true
yazmıyor|Noun false
.|Punc true

Fabrikayı|Noun false
yapacak|Adj true
olan|Adj true
,|Punc true
ekonomik|Adj true
faaliyetleri|Noun true
gerçekleştirecek|Noun false
olan|Adj true
,|Punc true
üretim|Noun true
yapacak|Adj true
olan|Adj true
firmalardır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Artık|Adj true
dünyanın|Noun true
küçücük|Adj true
bir|Adj true
mekan|Noun true
olduğunu|Noun true
,|Punc true
küreselleşen|Noun false
dünyada|Noun true
rekabetin|Noun true
de|Conj true
küreselleştiğini|Noun false
anlattı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Marka|Noun false
tek|Adj true
başına|Noun true
yeterli|Adj true
değil|Conj true
.|Punc true

Konunun|Noun false
ilk|Adj true
kez|Noun true
gündeme|Noun true
geldiği|Adj true
andan|Noun false
itibaren|Postp true
Arjantin|Noun false
makamları|Noun false
nezdinde|Noun false
gerçekleştirdiğimiz|Noun false
müteaddit|Noun false
girişimlerimizde|Noun false
,|Punc true
yasa|Noun true
tasarısının|Noun false
tarihi|Adj true
gerçeklerle|Noun true
bağdaşmadığı|Noun false
,|Punc true
ikili|Noun true
ilişkilerimize|Noun false
zarar_vereceği|Noun false
vurgulanmıştı|Noun false
.|Punc true

İşletmenin|Noun false
pazarı|Noun false
ne|Adj true
kadar|Adv true
büyükse|Noun false
gücünün|Noun true
de|Conj true
o|Det true
kadar|Adv true
büyük|Adj true
olacağını|Noun true
anlattı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Şunu|Noun false
bilmemiz|Noun false
gerekiyor|Verb true
ki|Conj true
küreselleşme|Noun true
dediğimiz|Noun false
hadise|Noun false
bir|Adj true
kabul|Noun true
veya|Conj true
ret|Noun true
değildir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Zaman|Noun true
zaman|Noun true
küreselleşme|Noun true
etrafında|Noun true
tartışmalar|Noun true
yapılır|Verb true
.|Punc true

Kalabalığın|Noun false
ortasında|Noun true
bir|Adj true
adam|Noun true
bağıra|Verb true
bağıra|Verb true
bir|Adj true
şeyler|Noun true
söylüyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

Kalabalıktaki|Noun false
insanlar|Noun true
da|Conj true
onu|Pron true
dinlermiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bizim|Pron true
Keloğlan|Noun false
da|Conj true
kalabalığa|Noun false
sokularak|Adv true
bu|Det true
adamın|Noun true
dediklerini|Noun false
dinlemiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Adam|Noun true
meğer|Conj true
şehrin|Noun true
tellallarından|Noun false
biriymiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Keloğlan'ın|Noun false
dinlemekte|Noun false
olduğu|Adj true
tellal|Noun false
şöyle|Adj true
demekteydi|Noun false
.|Punc true

Uykusunu|Noun false
bir|Adj true
türlü|Adj true
alamayan|Noun false
eşeğin|Noun false
gönlünü|Noun false
almak|Noun true
için|Postp true
çeşitli|Adj true
komiklikler|Noun false
yapar|Verb true
,|Punc true
ona|Verb true
şeker|Noun true
verir|Adj true
,|Punc true
sağrısını|Noun false
sıvazlarmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

İki|Num true
gözü|Noun true
iki|Num true
çeşme|Noun false
,|Punc true
öksürüp|Noun false
aksırarak|Noun false
,|Punc true
derdini|Noun false
anlatamadan|Adv true
bir|Adj true
köşeye|Noun true
çekilirmiş|Noun false
kara|Adj true
yazgılı|Noun false
hayvan|Noun true
.|Punc true

Arşivlerimiz|Noun false
tüm|Det true
dünyaya|Noun true
açıktır|Verb true
.|Punc true

İki|Num true
bitkin|Noun false
yolcu|Noun false
konuşa|Noun false
konuşa|Noun false
bir|Adj true
kulübeye|Noun false
gelmişler|Verb true
.|Punc true

İnce|Adj true
duygulu|Noun true
eşek|Noun true
,|Punc true
sahibinin|Noun true
başında|Noun true
uzun|Adj true
süre|Noun true
ağlamış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kız|Noun true
,|Punc true
padişaha|Noun false
buyur_etmiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Vezir|Noun false
de|Conj true
berabermiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Padişahla|Noun false
kız|Adj true
konuşmaya|Noun true
başlamışlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Aman|Interj true
padişahım|Noun false
,|Punc true
bana|Pron true
üç|Num true
gün|Noun true
izin_ver|Verb true
,|Punc true
diye|Verb true
yalvarmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
gün|Noun true
düşünmüş|Verb true
,|Punc true
iki|Num true
gün|Noun true
düşünmüş|Verb true
,|Punc true
işin|Noun true
içinden|Noun true
çıkamayacağını|Noun false
kestirince|Noun false
doğru|Adj true
kıza|Noun true
gitmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Geçen|Adj true
gün|Noun true
padişahla|Noun false
konuştuğunuz|Noun false
sözlerin|Noun false
manasını|Noun false
bilmezsem|Noun false
başım|Noun true
uçacak|Noun false
.|Punc true

Aman|Interj true
kızım|Noun true
,|Punc true
bana|Pron true
söyle|Verb true
şunları|Pron true
.|Punc true

Anlatırım|Verb true
ama|Conj true
her|Det true
biri|Pron true
için|Postp true
yüz|Verb true
altın|Adj true
isterim|Verb true
.|Punc true

O|Det true
gün|Noun true
her|Det true
nasılsa|Adv true
domuzun|Noun false
biri|Pron true
yolunu|Noun true
şaşırmış|Adj true
,|Punc true
kasabanın|Noun false
içine|Noun true
kadar|Adv true
girmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Koca|Noun false
bir|Adj true
köpek|Noun true
domuzu|Noun false
tutup|Adv true
boğmuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Domuz|Noun false
yerde|Noun true
debelenip|Noun false
son|Adj true
nefesini|Noun false
veriyor|Verb true
,|Punc true
köpek|Noun true
de|Conj true
yalanıyormuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Gereken|Noun false
hazırlıklar|Noun true
yapılmış|Adj true
,|Punc true
padişah|Noun false
babası|Noun true
ziyafete|Noun false
çağrılmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Tilki|Noun false
dereden|Noun false
suyu|Noun true
almış|Verb true
,|Punc true
tarlaya|Noun true
vermiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Tarladan|Noun false
mısırı|Noun false
almış|Verb true
,|Punc true
tavuklara|Noun false
vermiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Tavuklardan|Noun false
yumurta|Noun true
almış|Verb true
,|Punc true
kuyumcuya|Noun false
vermiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Kuyumcudan|Noun false
inci|Noun false
almış|Verb true
,|Punc true
kızlara|Noun true
vermiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Kızlarla|Noun false
çayırda|Noun false
oynamışlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Deve|Noun false
kurban_etmeyen|Noun false
bir|Adj true
kültür|Noun true
örneği|Noun true
vereceğim|Verb true
.|Punc true

Çayırdan|Noun false
otu|Noun false
almış|Verb true
,|Punc true
koyuna|Noun false
vermiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Koyundan|Noun false
sütü|Noun true
almış|Verb true
,|Punc true
nineye|Noun false
vermiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Nineden|Noun false
kuyruğunu|Noun false
almış|Verb true
,|Punc true
yorgun|Adj true
ama|Conj true
mutlu|Adj true
bir|Adj true
şekilde|Noun true
çıkmış|Adj true
,|Punc true
gitmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
karı_kocanın|Noun false
bir|Adj true
kızı|Noun true
olmuş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
kız|Adj true
o|Det true
kadar|Adv true
tembelmiş|Noun false
ki|Conj true
yerinden|Noun true
kalkmaya|Noun true
üşeniyormuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Anası|Noun false
babası|Noun true
ona|Verb true
bir|Adj true
gelberi|Noun false
yaptırmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kız|Noun true
da|Conj true
oturduğu|Adj true
yerden|Noun true
işini|Noun true
gelberiyle|Noun false
yapıyormuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kızının|Noun false
evlilik|Noun true
çağı|Noun false
gelmiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Anası|Noun false
babası|Noun true
kızı|Noun true
bir|Adj true
avcıyla|Noun false
evlendirmiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bildirilen|Noun false
üç|Num true
adayla|Noun false
birlikte|Adv true
artık|Adv true
aralarından|Noun true
birini|Pron true
seçmek|Noun false
bize|Pron true
bırakılmıştı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
konuda|Noun true
bilgi|Noun true
verirken|Noun false
veya|Conj true
bir|Adj true
gerçeği|Noun true
savunurken|Noun false
,|Punc true
türlü|Adj true
kanıtlardan|Noun false
faydalanan|Noun false
,|Punc true
bunları|Pron true
bilimsel|Adj true
biçimde|Noun true
inceleyen|Adj true
gazete|Noun false
ve|Conj true
dergi|Noun true
yazılarına|Noun false
makale|Noun true
denir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Makaleler|Noun false
her|Det true
konuda|Noun true
yazılabilir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bilim|Noun true
ve|Conj true
kültür|Noun true
alanında|Noun true
yazılan|Noun false
makaleler|Noun false
,|Punc true
sınırlı|Noun false
bir|Adj true
kültür|Noun true
kesimine|Noun false
ulaşmayı|Noun false
amaçladığından|Noun false
bu|Det true
makalelerde|Noun false
daha|Adv true
bilimsel|Adj true
bir|Adj true
dil|Noun true
kullanılır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Gazete|Noun false
ve|Conj true
dergilerdeki|Noun false
makalelerse|Noun false
,|Punc true
geniş|Adj true
halk|Noun true
kitlelerine|Noun false
ulaşmayı|Noun false
amaçladığından|Noun false
yazar|Noun true
,|Punc true
dilini|Noun true
daha|Adv true
açık|Adj true
,|Punc true
daha|Adv true
popüler|Noun false
ve|Conj true
daha|Adv true
anlaşılır|Noun false
bir|Adj true
düzeyde|Noun false
tutar|Verb true
,|Punc true
özel|Adj true
terimler|Noun false
kullanmaktan|Noun false
kaçınır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Gazete|Noun false
ve|Conj true
dergilerde|Noun false
yayımlanan|Adj true
güncel|Adj true
,|Punc true
siyasal|Adj true
,|Punc true
toplumsal|Adj true
sorunları|Noun false
ele_alan|Adj true
yazılardır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Gülmece|Noun false
nitelikli|Noun false
fıkralar|Noun false
da|Conj true
olmakla|Noun false
birlikte|Adv true
yazılı|Adj true
kompozisyon|Noun false
türü|Noun true
olarak|Adv true
fıkra|Noun false
,|Punc true
düşünsel|Adj true
ağırlıklı|Noun true
kısa|Adj true
yazılardır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Edebi|Noun false
türlerin|Noun false
tümü|Pron true
gibi|Verb true
deneme|Noun true
için|Postp true
de|Conj true
bir|Adj true
tanım|Noun false
vermek|Noun true
çok|Adj true
güçtür|Noun false
.|Punc true

Deneme|Noun false
günümüzde|Noun true
hemen|Adv true
bütün|Adj true
yazı|Noun true
türlerine|Noun false
doğru|Adj true
yayılma|Noun false
göstermektedir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
türler|Noun false
içinde|Noun true
en|Adv true
çok|Adj true
eleştiriyle|Noun false
bir|Adj true
arada|Noun true
anıldığı|Noun false
görülmektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ancak|Conj true
burada|Noun true
söz|Noun true
konusu|Noun true
olan|Adj true
daha|Adv true
çok|Adj true
izlenimsel|Noun false
eleştiridir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Psikolojik|Noun false
danışmanımız|Noun false
olan|Adj true
kurumun|Noun false
uzmanları|Noun true
da|Conj true
bizim|Pron true
seçimimiz|Noun false
için|Postp true
katkıda_bulundu|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
eserin|Noun false
,|Punc true
bir|Adj true
sorunun|Noun true
,|Punc true
bir|Adj true
olayın|Noun true
özelliklerini|Noun true
,|Punc true
en|Adv true
ince|Adj true
ayrıntılarını|Noun false
araştırarak|Noun false
göz|Noun true
önüne|Noun true
seren|Noun false
yazı|Noun true
türlerine|Noun false
inceleme|Noun true
denir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Her|Det true
obje|Noun false
bir|Adj true
inceleme|Noun true
konusu|Noun true
olabilir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Böyle|Adj true
önemli|Adj true
bir|Adj true
görevin|Noun false
başına|Noun true
getirilen|Adj true
kişi|Noun true
,|Punc true
eski|Adj true
sakallı|Adj true
fotoğrafından|Noun false
da|Conj true
anlaşılıyor|Noun false
ki|Conj true
,|Punc true
bir|Adj true
bütün|Adj true
bürokrasiye|Noun false
yayılan|Noun false
zihniyetin|Noun false
bir|Adj true
örneği|Noun true
olabilir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Netameli|Noun false
uçaklardan|Noun false
sonuncusunun|Noun false
iade_edilişiyle|Noun false
birlikte|Adv true
,|Punc true
deve|Noun false
kurban_eden|Noun false
ve|Conj true
kanlı|Adj true
deve|Noun false
parçalarıyla|Noun false
personele|Noun false
fotoğraflar|Noun false
çektirten|Noun false
kişi|Noun true
,|Punc true
başka|Adj true
nasıl|Adj true
biri|Pron true
olabilir|Verb true
?|Punc true

Merkez_Bankası'nın|Noun false
bilançosunun|Noun false
ayrıntılarını|Noun false
daha|Adv true
önce|Adv true
irdelemiştim|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
yolla|Verb true
basılan|Noun false
para|Noun true
piyasa|Noun true
tarafından|Noun true
talep_edilen|Noun false
para|Noun true
değildi|Verb true
.|Punc true

Merkez_Bankası|Noun true
bu|Det true
parayı|Noun true
enflasyonla|Noun false
mücadele|Noun true
programı|Noun true
çerçevesinde|Noun true
borçlanmak|Noun false
durumunda|Noun true
kaldı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Merkez_Bankası|Noun true
borçlanma|Noun true
yerine|Noun true
elindeki|Adj true
Hazine|Noun true
tahvillerini|Noun false
piyasaya|Noun true
satabilseydi|Noun false
,|Punc true
borçlanma|Noun true
yoluyla|Noun true
çektiği|Adj true
parayı|Noun true
elindeki|Adj true
tahvillerden|Noun false
kurtularak|Noun false
geri|Adj true
çekebilirdi|Noun false
.|Punc true

Tahvillerin|Noun false
piyasada|Noun true
alış|Verb true
verişi|Noun false
olmayan|Adj true
özel|Adj true
tahviller|Noun false
olması|Noun true
Merkez_Bankası'nın|Noun false
elini_kolunu|Noun false
bağladı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Zamanla|Noun false
,|Punc true
fiyat|Noun true
artışları|Noun false
ve|Conj true
ekonomik|Adj true
büyüme|Noun true
sonucunda|Noun true
Merkez_Bankası'nın|Noun false
borçlanma|Noun true
durumunda|Noun true
olduğu|Adj true
paraya|Noun false
talep_artıp|Noun false
Merkez_Bankası|Noun true
giderek|Adv true
piyasadan|Noun false
daha|Adv true
az|Adj true
borçlanabilirdi|Noun false
.|Punc true

2004|Noun false
yılı|Noun true
sonlarında|Noun false
ve|Conj true
2005|Num true
yılı|Noun true
başlarında|Noun false
böyle|Adj true
bir|Adj true
eğilim|Noun false
de|Conj true
gözlenmeye|Noun false
başlamıştı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Merkez_Bankası|Noun true
giderek|Adv true
piyasadan|Noun false
daha|Adv true
az|Adj true
borçlanmaya|Noun true
başlamıştı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
,|Punc true
evdeki|Adj true
hesap|Noun true
çarşıya|Noun false
uymadı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
kez|Noun true
,|Punc true
"|Punc true
döviz|Noun false
kurlarında|Noun false
oynaklığın|Noun false
azaltılması|Noun false
"|Punc true
adı|Noun true
altında|Noun true
Merkez_Bankası|Noun true
kurlar|Noun false
düşmesin|Noun false
diye|Verb true
döviz|Noun false
kurlarına|Noun false
müdahale_etmek|Noun true
zorunda_kaldı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Döviz|Noun false
alarak|Adv true
para|Noun true
basmaya|Noun false
başladı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
alanda|Noun true
bir|Adj true
esneklik|Noun false
söz|Noun true
konusu|Noun true
değildir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bilançosunda|Noun false
esnekliğin|Noun false
olmaması|Noun true
Merkez_Bankası'nın|Noun false
döviz|Noun false
alımları|Noun false
yoluyla|Noun true
çıkardığı|Adj true
parayı|Noun true
yeniden|Adv true
borçlanmak|Noun false
durumunda_bıraktı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Grafikte|Noun false
,|Punc true
Merkez_Bankası'nın|Noun false
döviz|Noun false
pozisyonu|Noun false
(|Punc true
döviz|Noun false
varlıkları|Noun false
ile|Conj true
döviz|Noun false
üzerinden|Noun true
yükümlülükleri|Noun false
arasındaki|Adj true
fark|Noun true
)|Punc true
sol|Adj true
eksende|Noun false
,|Punc true
açık|Adj true
piyasa|Noun true
işlemleri|Noun false
yoluyla|Noun true
borçlanmaları|Noun false
sağ|Adj true
eksende|Noun false
gösterilmektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Açık|Adj true
piyasa|Noun true
işlemlerinden|Noun false
borçlarla|Noun false
dövizdeki|Noun false
net|Noun true
pozisyon|Noun true
2003|Noun false
ve|Conj true
2004|Noun false
yıllarında|Noun true
bazı|Adj true
dönemlerde|Noun true
paralellik|Noun false
arz_ederken|Noun false
,|Punc true
2005|Num true
yılının|Noun true
eylül|Noun true
ayından|Noun true
sonra|Adv true
paralellik|Noun false
çok|Adj true
daha|Adv true
güçlenmiştir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Merkez_Bankası|Noun true
pratik|Noun false
anlamda|Noun true
bir|Adj true
"|Punc true
para|Noun true
kurulu|Adj true
"|Punc true
gibi|Verb true
çalışmaya|Noun true
başlamıştır|Verb true
.|Punc true

Yani|Conj true
,|Punc true
yalnızca|Adj true
döviz|Noun false
karşılığı|Noun false
para|Noun true
çıkaran|Adj true
bir|Adj true
kurum|Noun true
durumundadır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
rolünün|Noun false
uzun|Adj true
bir|Adj true
dönem|Noun true
devam_etmesi|Noun false
,|Punc true
döviz|Noun false
kurlarının|Noun false
nerede|Pron true
olmasını|Noun true
istemenize|Noun false
bağlı_olarak|Noun false
,|Punc true
enflasyon|Noun true
hedeflemesinin|Noun false
rafa|Noun false
kaldırılması|Noun true
mecburiyetini|Noun false
doğurur|Noun false
.|Punc true

Dolayısıyla|Adv true
,|Punc true
döviz|Noun false
kuru|Adj true
kaygısıyla|Noun false
Merkez_Bankası'nın|Noun false
para|Noun true
basıp|Noun false
bastığı|Adj true
parayı|Noun true
borçlanması|Noun false
uygulaması|Noun false
çok|Adj true
uzun|Adj true
süre|Noun true
devam|Noun true
edemez|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kısacası|Adv true
,|Punc true
ya|Conj true
döviz|Noun false
kuru|Adj true
ya_da|Conj true
enflasyon|Noun true
düzeyi|Noun true
konusunda|Noun true
hedefimiz|Noun true
olacaktır|Verb true
.|Punc true

Biri|Pron true
olursa|Verb true
,|Punc true
diğerinden|Noun false
vazgeçmek|Noun false
zorunda_kalacağız|Noun false
.|Punc true

Döviz|Noun false
girişi|Noun false
devam_ettiği|Noun false
halde|Noun true
döviz|Noun false
kurlarının|Noun false
artmasını|Noun false
arzulayanların|Noun false
konunun|Noun false
bu|Det true
tarafını|Noun false
düşünmesinde|Noun false
yarar|Verb true
vardır|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
alanda|Noun true
bir|Adj true
esneklik|Noun false
söz|Noun true
konusu|Noun true
değildir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Hazine'ye|Noun false
2001|Noun false
yılında|Noun true
verilen|Adj true
krediler|Noun false
bu|Det true
yıldan|Noun true
itibaren|Postp true
geri|Adj true
ödenmeye|Noun false
başlanacak|Noun false
.|Punc true

Merkez_Bankası'nın|Noun false
bu|Det true
aşamada|Noun false
bilanço|Noun false
esnekliği|Noun false
döviz|Noun false
pozisyonu|Noun false
ile|Conj true
açık|Adj true
piyasa|Noun true
işlemleri|Noun false
yoluyla|Noun true
piyasadan|Noun false
borçlanması|Noun false
ya_da|Conj true
piyasaya|Noun true
borç|Noun true
vermesi|Noun true
yoluyla|Noun true
olabiliyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

2001|Noun false
yılından|Noun false
bu|Det true
yana|Postp true
Merkez_Bankası|Noun true
para|Noun true
piyasasından|Noun false
bastığı|Adj true
parayı|Noun true
borçlanıyor|Noun false
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
Borçlanacaksa|Noun false
,|Punc true
neden|Adv true
parayı|Noun true
basıyor|Noun false
?|Punc true
"|Punc true
sorusu|Noun true
sorulabilir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Sorunun|Noun false
yanıtı|Noun true
"|Punc true
zorunluluktan|Noun true
"|Punc true
.|Punc true

2001|Noun false
yılında|Noun true
uzun|Adj true
vadeli|Adj true
Hazine|Noun true
tahvilleri|Noun false
karşılığında|Noun true
bir|Adj true
kereye|Noun false
mahsus_olmak|Noun false
üzere|Postp true
Merkez_Bankası|Noun true
kamuya|Noun true
borç_verdi|Noun false
.|Punc true

Doların|Noun false
hızla|Noun true
değer|Noun true
yitirmesinin|Noun false
kimseye|Noun true
faydası|Noun false
yok|Adj true
.|Punc true

Aynı|Adj true
kalmayan|Noun false
şeyler|Noun true
bizim|Pron true
gibi|Verb true
ekonomileri|Noun false
olumsuz|Adj true
etkileyebilecektir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Son|Adj true
aylarda|Noun true
Amerikan|Noun false
ekonomisinin|Noun true
yavaşladığına|Noun false
yönelik|Postp true
bazı|Adj true
sinyaller|Noun true
geliyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

Yavaşlayan|Noun false
ekonomi|Noun true
ile_beraber|Noun false
enflasyon|Noun true
tehdidinin|Noun true
azaldığı|Noun false
beklentisiyle|Noun false
Amerika'da|Noun true
faiz|Noun true
artışlarının|Noun false
sonuna|Noun true
gelindiği|Noun false
düşünülüyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

Buna|Pron true
karşılık|Noun true
,|Punc true
Avrupa|Noun true
ekonomileri|Noun false
canlanma|Noun false
sinyalleri|Noun false
veriyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

Avrupa'da|Noun true
faiz|Noun true
artırımlarının|Noun false
devam_edeceği|Noun false
bekleniyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

Faiz|Noun false
paritesinin|Noun false
yeniden|Adv true
Avrupa|Noun true
yönünde|Noun true
değişeceği|Noun false
beklentisiyle|Noun false
Euro|Noun false
ve|Conj true
diğer|Adj true
Avrupa|Noun true
paraları|Noun false
dolara|Noun true
karşı|Adv true
değer|Noun true
kazanıyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
,|Punc true
hareket|Noun true
beklenenden|Noun false
çok|Adj true
daha|Adv true
sert|Adj true
oluyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

Amerikan|Noun false
doları|Noun false
dünya|Noun true
ödemeler|Noun true
sisteminde|Noun false
rezerv|Noun false
paradır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Yani|Conj true
,|Punc true
dünyadaki|Adj true
merkez|Noun true
bankaları|Noun false
döviz|Noun false
rezervlerinin|Noun false
önemli|Adj true
bir|Adj true
bölümünü|Noun true
dolar|Noun true
olarak|Adv true
tutarlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Doların|Noun false
değer|Noun true
kaybetmesi|Noun false
ülkelerin|Noun false
döviz|Noun false
rezervlerinin|Noun false
reel|Adj true
olarak|Adv true
değer|Noun true
kaybetmesi|Noun false
anlamına_gelir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Son|Adj true
günlerde|Noun true
Amerikan|Noun false
doları|Noun false
Avrupa|Noun true
paralarına|Noun false
göre|Postp true
hızla|Noun true
değer|Noun true
yitiriyor|Noun false
.|Punc true

Dünyada|Noun true
ticareti|Noun false
yapılan|Adj true
birçok|Det true
hammadde|Noun false
Amerikan|Noun false
doları|Noun false
üzerinden|Noun true
fiyatlandırılır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Doların|Noun false
değer|Noun true
kaybetmesi|Noun false
herhangi|Adj true
bir|Adj true
arz|Noun false
ya_da|Conj true
talep|Noun true
özendirmesi|Noun false
olmadan|Adv true
dünyada|Noun true
hammadde|Noun false
fiyatlarının|Noun false
dolar|Noun true
üzerinden|Noun true
artacağı|Noun false
anlamına_gelir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Hammadde|Noun false
üreticisi|Noun false
olmayan|Adj true
ülkelerin|Noun false
üretim|Noun true
maliyetleri|Noun true
artar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
ülkeler|Noun false
dış|Adj true
ticaret|Noun false
yoluyla|Noun true
yurt|Noun true
dışından|Noun false
enflasyon|Noun true
ithal_etmeye|Noun false
başlarlar|Verb true
.|Punc true

Hammadde|Noun false
fiyatlamalarının|Noun false
değeri|Noun true
giderek|Adv true
artan|Adj true
bir|Adj true
başka|Adj true
para|Noun true
cinsinden|Noun true
yapılması|Noun true
bu|Det true
durumu|Noun true
değiştirmez|Verb true
.|Punc true

Doların|Noun false
hızla|Noun true
değer|Noun true
kaybetmesi|Noun false
Amerika'da|Noun true
ithal|Noun true
mallarını|Noun false
pahalılaştıracağından|Noun false
,|Punc true
iç|Adj true
talep|Noun true
daralmasıyla|Noun false
beraber|Adj true
Amerika'da|Noun true
enflasyonist|Noun false
baskıların|Noun false
artması|Noun false
söz|Noun true
konusu|Noun true
olabilecektir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Doların|Noun false
değer|Noun true
kaybetmesi|Noun false
nedeniyle|Noun true
Amerikalı|Adj true
üreticilerin|Noun false
kısa|Adj true
sürede|Noun true
ihracata|Noun false
kaymalarını|Noun false
beklemek|Noun true
ise|Conj true
çok|Adj true
gerçekçi|Noun false
görünmemektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Dolayısıyla|Adv true
,|Punc true
2000'li|Noun false
yıllarda|Noun true
dünya|Noun true
büyümesinin|Noun false
yüzde_90'ınından|Noun false
fazlasını|Noun true
tek|Adj true
başına|Noun true
sağlayan|Adj true
Amerikan|Noun false
ekonomisindeki|Noun false
durgunluk|Noun false
tüm|Det true
dünyayı|Noun true
olumsuz|Adj true
etkileyebilecek|Noun false
boyutlarda|Noun false
olabilecektir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Son|Adj true
veriler|Noun true
ışığında|Noun true
,|Punc true
Amerikan|Noun false
ekonomisinin|Noun true
,|Punc true
enflasyonist|Noun false
baskılar|Noun false
tam|Adj true
olarak|Adv true
yok_olmasa|Noun false
da|Conj true
,|Punc true
"|Punc true
yumuşak|Adj true
iniş|Noun true
"|Punc true
yapabileceği|Adj true
yönünde|Noun true
izlenimler|Noun false
güçleniyordu|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
,|Punc true
doların|Noun false
hızlı|Adj true
düşüşü|Noun false
enflasyonu|Noun true
artırırken|Noun false
,|Punc true
yumuşak|Adj true
inişi|Noun true
sertleştirebilecektir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Buna|Pron true
karşılık|Noun true
,|Punc true
Japon|Noun false
Yeni|Adj true
hariç|Noun false
,|Punc true
Çin|Noun true
başta_olmak|Noun false
üzere|Postp true
Asya|Noun false
ülkelerinin|Noun true
bir|Adj true
çoğu|Adj true
paralarını|Noun true
dolara|Noun true
karşı|Adv true
paralel|Adj true
götürmeye|Noun false
çalışıyorlar|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
gelişmelerden|Noun false
en|Adv true
çok|Adj true
etkilenecek|Noun false
ülkeler|Noun false
grubu|Noun true
ekonomileri|Noun false
açık|Adj true
ya_da|Conj true
zımni|Noun false
dolara|Noun true
endeksli|Noun false
ülkelerdir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Türkiye'nin|Noun true
de|Conj true
zımni|Noun false
olarak|Adv true
dolara|Noun true
endeksli|Noun false
bir|Adj true
ekonomiye|Noun false
sahip_olduğu|Noun false
söylenebilir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Kısacası|Adv true
,|Punc true
Amerikan|Noun false
ekonomisinin|Noun true
karışmasından|Noun false
hiç_kimsenin|Noun false
fayda|Noun true
görmesi|Noun false
mümkün|Adj true
görünmemektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Doların|Noun false
değeri|Noun true
bu|Det true
paralara|Noun false
karşı|Adv true
fazla|Adj true
oynamadı|Noun false
.|Punc true

İhracatımızın|Noun false
önemli|Adj true
bir|Adj true
bölümünün|Noun false
Avrupa|Noun true
paraları|Noun false
cinsinden|Noun true
olması|Noun true
ve|Conj true
ithalatımızın|Noun false
da|Conj true
önemli|Adj true
bir|Adj true
bölümünün|Noun false
Amerikan|Noun false
doları|Noun false
üzerinden|Noun true
olması|Noun true
nedeniyle|Noun true
,|Punc true
doların|Noun false
değer|Noun true
kaybetmesi|Noun false
bizim|Pron true
işimize_geliyor|Noun false
gibi|Verb true
görünüyor|Verb true
.|Punc true

Değeri|Noun false
düşen|Adj true
paradan|Noun false
ithalat|Noun false
yapıp|Adv true
değeri|Noun true
artan|Adj true
bir|Adj true
parayla|Noun true
ihracat|Noun true
yaparak|Adv true
avantajlı|Adj true
bir|Adj true
duruma|Noun true
geleceğimiz|Noun false
düşünülebilir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
,|Punc true
konu|Noun true
o|Det true
denli|Adj true
basit|Adj true
değil|Conj true
.|Punc true

Ekonomide|Noun false
bazı|Adj true
fiyatlar|Noun false
değişip|Noun false
diğer|Adj true
her|Det true
şey|Noun true
aynı|Adj true
kalmıyor|Noun false
.|Punc true

Dolayısıyla|Adv true
,|Punc true
doların|Noun false
hızla|Noun true
değer|Noun true
yitirmesiyle|Noun false
diğer|Adj true
her|Det true
şey|Noun true
de|Conj true
aynı|Adj true
kalmayacaktır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bağlılık|Noun false
ayrıştırması|Noun false
,|Punc true
bir|Adj true
tümce|Noun false
içindeki|Adj true
sözcükler|Noun true
arası|Noun true
ikili|Noun true
ilişkileri|Noun true
saptayarak|Noun false
o|Det true
tümcenin|Noun false
çözümlemesini|Noun false
sağlayan|Adj true
yönteme|Noun false
verilen|Adj true
addır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
tümcenin|Noun false
anlamının|Noun false
çıkarılması|Noun true
doğal|Adj true
dil|Noun true
işlemenin|Noun false
ana|Adj true
hedefleri|Noun true
içindedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Eğer|Conj true
tümcenin|Noun false
hedeflediği|Noun false
gerçek|Adj true
anlam|Noun true
çıkartılabilirse|Noun false
bu|Det true
tümce|Noun false
makineler|Noun true
tarafından|Noun true
eyleme|Noun false
dönüştürülebilir|Noun false
ya_da|Conj true
bu|Det true
tümcenin|Noun false
başka|Adj true
dillerdeki|Noun false
karşılıkları|Noun false
bulunabilir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Anlam|Noun false
çıkarılması|Noun true
için|Postp true
öncelikle|Noun true
tümcenin|Noun false
çözümlenmesi|Noun false
gerekmektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
tümcenin|Noun false
çözümlemesi|Noun false
demek|Adv true
tümce|Noun false
içinde|Noun true
bulunan|Adj true
sözcüklerin|Noun false
görevlerinin|Noun false
belirlenmesi|Noun true
anlamındadır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Çözümleme|Noun false
yöntemlerinden|Noun false
biri|Pron true
de|Conj true
bağlılık|Noun false
ayrıştırmasıdır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
nedenle|Noun true
,|Punc true
bağlılık|Noun false
ayrıştırması|Noun false
doğal|Adj true
dil|Noun true
çalışmalarının|Noun false
temel|Adj true
konuları|Noun false
içinde|Noun true
sayılır|Verb true
.|Punc true

Doğal|Noun false
Dil|Noun true
İşleme|Noun false
alanında|Noun true
çalışanlar|Noun false
,|Punc true
Türkçe'nin|Noun false
özel|Adj true
bir|Adj true
durumunun|Noun false
olduğunu|Noun true
bilirler|Noun false
.|Punc true

Türkçe|Noun true
,|Punc true
bitişken|Noun false
bir|Adj true
dildir|Noun false
,|Punc true
kural|Noun true
tabanlıdır|Noun false
,|Punc true
sağlam|Adj true
ve|Conj true
bozulmamış|Noun false
bir|Adj true
yapısı|Noun true
vardır|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
sözcük|Noun true
kök|Noun false
ve|Conj true
kökün|Noun false
sonuna|Noun true
eklenmiş|Noun false
eklerden|Noun false
oluşur|Verb true
.|Punc true

Ek|Adj true
sayısı|Noun true
ortalama|Adj true
3|Num true
-|Punc true
5|Noun false
arasıdır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
Türkçe|Noun true
sözcüğün|Noun false
kökünün|Noun false
bilinmesi|Noun false
,|Punc true
sözcüğün|Noun false
temel|Adj true
anlamını|Noun false
verir|Adj true
.|Punc true

Her|Det true
ek|Noun true
,|Punc true
sözcüğe|Noun false
yeni|Adj true
ancak|Conj true
herkesin|Noun true
anlayacağı|Noun false
bir|Adj true
anlam|Noun true
kazandırır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
nedenle|Noun true
,|Punc true
bir|Adj true
sözcüğün|Noun false
kökünün|Noun false
elde_edilmesi|Noun false
ve|Conj true
eklerinin|Noun false
belirlenmesi|Noun true
önemlidir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
sözcüğün|Noun false
kökünü|Noun false
bulmak|Noun true
için|Postp true
veritabanına|Noun false
yerleştirilmiş|Adj true
bir|Adj true
sözlükten|Noun false
yararlanılabilir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Çam|Noun false
ağaçlarını|Noun false
taşıyan|Adj true
kamyonlar|Noun false
,|Punc true
sıkışık|Adj true
kent|Noun true
trafiğinde|Noun false
yol_aldılar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Işıklar|Noun false
,|Punc true
fidancığa|Noun false
ormanda|Noun true
beğeniyle|Noun false
seyrettiği|Noun false
yıldızları|Noun false
hatırlattı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Özlemle|Noun false
gökyüzüne|Noun true
baktı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
dayandığı|Noun false
direğin|Noun false
lambası|Noun false
gözlerini|Noun true
kamaştırdığından|Noun false
hiçbir|Det true
şey|Noun true
göremedi|Noun false
.|Punc true

Çevresine|Noun false
baktı|Verb true
.|Punc true

İşte|Interj true
o|Det true
zaman|Noun true
sepetlerde|Noun false
,|Punc true
kovalarda|Noun false
satılan|Adj true
renk_renk|Noun false
çiçekleri|Noun false
gördü|Verb true
.|Punc true

Çok|Adj true
eski|Adj true
bir|Adj true
tanıdığına|Noun false
rastlamış|Noun false
gibi|Verb true
mutlu|Adj true
oldu|Verb true
.|Punc true

Yandaki|Adj true
kesilmiş|Adj true
çam|Noun false
dalı|Noun true
,|Punc true
acı_acı|Noun false
söylendi|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
süre|Noun true
sonra|Adv true
kamyonlar|Noun false
,|Punc true
birbirinden|Pron true
ayrılarak|Noun false
başka_başka|Noun false
yollara|Noun false
saptılar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
zamanlar|Noun true
,|Punc true
dalımda|Noun false
yuva|Noun true
yapan|Adj true
bir|Adj true
serçe|Noun false
kuşu|Noun false
vardı|Verb true
.|Punc true

O|Det true
,|Punc true
kentte|Noun true
bulunmuş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bütün|Adj true
bunları|Pron true
bana|Pron true
o|Det true
anlattı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Çam|Noun false
dalı|Noun true
,|Punc true
bunları|Pron true
söyledikten|Noun true
sonra|Adv true
susup|Noun false
içini|Noun true
çekti|Verb true
.|Punc true

Çam|Noun false
fidanı|Noun false
çok|Adj true
üzülmüştü|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
sırada|Noun true
çevrelerini|Noun false
insanlar|Noun true
sardı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Dallara|Noun false
,|Punc true
fidanlara|Noun false
bakıp|Adv true
fiyatlarını|Noun false
öğrenmek|Noun true
istiyorlardı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Onları|Pron true
ormandan|Noun true
getiren|Adj true
adamlar|Noun true
çamları|Noun false
övüyor|Noun false
,|Punc true
fiyatlarını|Noun false
söylüyorlardı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Dallar|Noun false
daha|Adv true
ucuzdu|Noun false
.|Punc true

Her|Det true
biri|Pron true
kentin|Noun true
değişik|Adj true
meydanlarına|Noun false
doğru|Adj true
gittiler|Verb true
.|Punc true

Hemen|Adv true
birkaç|Adj true
dal|Verb true
satıldı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Çam|Noun false
fidanının|Noun false
bulunduğu|Adj true
araba|Noun true
,|Punc true
kalabalık|Noun true
büyük|Adj true
bir|Adj true
meydana|Noun false
geldi|Verb true
.|Punc true

Burada|Noun true
çiçeklerin|Noun false
satıldığı|Noun false
geniş|Adj true
bir|Adj true
alan|Adj true
vardı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Arabadaki|Noun false
insanlar|Noun true
,|Punc true
çam|Noun false
dallarını|Noun false
ve|Conj true
fidanları|Noun false
buraya|Noun true
taşıyıp|Adv true
direklere|Noun false
dayadılar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Çam|Noun false
fidanı|Noun false
çevresini|Noun false
merakla|Noun true
seyrediyordu|Verb true
.|Punc true

Artık|Adj true
akşam|Noun true
olmuştu|Verb true
.|Punc true

Çevredeki|Noun false
binalarda|Noun false
,|Punc true
direklerde|Noun false
renk_renk|Noun false
ışıklar|Noun true
yanmıştı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Çam|Noun false
fidanını|Noun false
ve|Conj true
onu|Pron true
satın_alanları|Noun false
taşıyan|Adj true
araba|Noun true
,|Punc true
büyük|Adj true
bir|Adj true
evin|Noun true
önünde|Noun true
durdu|Verb true
.|Punc true

Fidancık|Noun false
,|Punc true
üzüntüyle|Noun false
çevresine|Noun false
bakındı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Salonda|Noun true
küçük|Adj true
kız|Adj true
ve|Conj true
annesinden|Noun true
başka|Adj true
birkaç|Adj true
kişi|Noun true
daha|Adv true
vardı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
masanın|Noun true
üstünden|Noun true
aldıkları|Adj true
süslerle|Noun false
çam|Noun false
fidanını|Noun false
süslemeye|Noun false
başladılar|Verb true
.|Punc true

Renkli|Noun false
,|Punc true
küçük|Adj true
ampuller|Noun false
asıldı|Noun false
dallarına|Noun false
.|Punc true

Az|Adj true
sonra|Adv true
küçük|Adj true
kızın|Noun true
babası|Noun true
da|Conj true
geldi|Verb true
.|Punc true

Kucağında|Noun false
renk_renk|Noun false
yaldızlı|Noun false
kağıtlara|Noun false
sarılmış|Verb true
hediye|Noun false
paketleri|Noun true
vardı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
,|Punc true
çok|Adj true
yüksek|Adj true
bir|Adj true
binaydı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Binanın|Noun false
kapıcısı|Noun false
,|Punc true
çam|Noun false
fidanını|Noun false
yedinci|Noun false
kattaki|Noun false
bir|Adj true
daireye|Noun false
çıkardı|Verb true
.|Punc true

Onu|Pron true
,|Punc true
salonda|Noun true
gösterilen|Adj true
yere|Noun true
koyarken|Noun false
bir|Adj true
an|Verb true
yapraklarının|Noun false
kokusunu|Noun true
içine|Noun true
çekti|Verb true
.|Punc true

O|Det true
da|Conj true
köyünü|Noun false
,|Punc true
oradaki|Adj true
çam|Noun false
kokularını|Noun true
özlemişti|Noun false
anlaşılan|Noun false
.|Punc true

Çam|Noun false
fidanı|Noun false
,|Punc true
süslü|Noun false
eşyalarla|Noun false
dolu|Adj true
olan|Adj true
bu|Det true
salonda|Noun true
doğadan|Noun false
,|Punc true
topraktan|Noun false
iyice|Adv true
uzaklaşmıştı|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kapıcı|Noun true
,|Punc true
çam|Noun false
fidanını|Noun false
geniş|Adj true
bir|Adj true
saksıya|Noun false
dikti|Noun false
.|Punc true

Fidancık|Noun false
,|Punc true
yine|Adv true
toprağa|Noun true
kavuştuğu|Noun false
için|Postp true
hemen|Adv true
köklerini|Noun false
yaymak|Noun false
istedi|Verb true
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
kökleri|Noun false
saksının|Noun false
kenarlarına|Noun true
çarpıp|Adv true
durmak|Noun false
zorunda|Noun false
kaldılar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
zamanlar|Noun true
güzeller|Noun false
güzeli|Noun false
bir|Adj true
kız|Adj true
varmış|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
gün|Noun true
iki|Num true
kız|Adj true
kardeşe|Noun false
sarayda|Noun false
verilecek|Adj true
bir|Adj true
balo|Noun false
için|Postp true
davetiye|Noun true
gelmiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

İkisi|Noun true
de|Conj true
heyecandan|Noun true
deliye_dönmüşler|Noun false
.|Punc true

Herkes|Noun true
Prens'in|Noun false
evlenmek|Noun true
istediğini|Noun true
biliyormuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

'|Punc true
Bakarsın|Noun false
ikimizden|Noun false
birini|Pron true
seçer|Verb true
,|Punc true
belli|Adj true
mi|Ques true
olur|Verb true
?|Punc true
'|Punc true
diye|Verb true
düşünmüşler|Noun false
.|Punc true

İki|Num true
kız|Adj true
kardeş|Noun true
de|Conj true
kendilerini|Pron true
mümkün|Adj true
olduğunca|Noun false
güzelleştirmek|Noun false
için|Postp true
hemen|Adv true
kolları|Noun false
sıvamışlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Balo|Noun false
akşamı|Noun false
,|Punc true
üvey|Adj true
kardeşleri|Noun true
gittikten|Noun true
sonra|Adv true
Külkedisi|Noun false
mutfakta|Noun true
oturmuş|Adj true
ve|Conj true
için|Postp true
için|Postp true
ağlamaya_başlamış|Noun false
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
Neyin|Pron true
var|Adj true
,|Punc true
neden|Adv true
ağlıyorsun|Noun false
Külkedisi|Noun false
?|Punc true
"|Punc true
diye|Verb true
sormuş|Noun false
bir|Adj true
kadın|Noun true
sesi|Noun true
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
Ben|Pron true
de|Conj true
baloya|Noun false
gitmek|Noun true
istiyordum|Noun false
"|Punc true
demiş|Verb true
hıçkırarak|Noun false
Külkedisi|Noun false
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
Gideceksin|Noun false
öyleyse|Verb true
"|Punc true
demiş|Verb true
ses|Noun true
.|Punc true

Külkedisi|Noun false
duyduğu|Noun false
sese|Noun true
doğru|Adj true
dönüp|Adv true
bakmış|Verb true
,|Punc true
şaşkınlıktan|Noun false
donakalmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Annesi|Noun true
ölünce|Adv true
babası|Noun true
yeniden|Adv true
evlenmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Oktay|Noun false
büzüldüğü|Noun false
köşede|Noun true
dişleri|Noun false
birbirine|Pron true
çarpa|Noun false
çarpa|Noun false
onu|Pron true
seyrediyordu|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
de|Conj true
baktım|Verb true
ki|Conj true
adam|Noun true
boylu|Adj true
boyunca|Postp true
yerde|Noun true
yatıyor|Noun false
.|Punc true

Karagöz|Noun false
gibi|Verb true
ortaoyunu|Noun false
da|Conj true
güldürmeyi|Noun false
ve|Conj true
güldürerek|Noun false
insanların|Noun true
aksak|Noun false
yönlerini|Noun true
iğnelemeyi|Noun false
gaye_edinmiştir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ana|Noun true
düşünceyi|Noun false
bir|Adj true
duvar|Noun false
olarak|Adv true
düşünürsek|Noun false
bu|Det true
duvarın|Noun false
tuğlaları|Noun false
da|Conj true
yardımcı|Noun true
düşüncelerdir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
yazarın|Noun true
sıkıntılarını|Noun false
ne|Adj true
bilir|Verb true
okuyucu|Noun false
!|Punc true

Bu|Det true
yazarın|Noun true
dramlarında|Noun false
kişiler|Noun true
,|Punc true
durumlarına|Noun false
karşı_koymaz|Noun false
,|Punc true
onu|Pron true
değiştirmek|Noun false
için|Postp true
savaşmazlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Sanat|Noun false
eserinde|Noun false
yalnız|Adj true
hayattan|Noun false
alınmış|Verb true
öğeler|Noun false
kullanılmalıdır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
zamanlar|Noun true
bir|Adj true
kadınla|Noun true
kocasının|Noun true
çocukları|Noun true
yokmuş|Noun false
ve|Conj true
çocuk|Noun true
sahibi|Noun true
olmayı|Noun true
çok|Adj true
istiyorlarmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Gel|Verb true
zaman|Noun true
git|Verb true
zaman|Noun true
kadın|Noun true
sonunda|Adv true
bir|Adj true
bebek|Noun true
beklediğini|Noun false
fark_etmiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
gün|Noun true
pencereden|Noun false
komşu|Adj true
evin|Noun true
bahçesindeki|Noun false
güzel|Adj true
çiçekleri|Noun false
ve|Conj true
sebzeleri|Noun false
seyrederken|Noun false
,|Punc true
kadının|Noun true
gözleri|Noun true
sıra|Noun true
sıra|Noun true
ekilmiş|Noun false
özel|Adj true
bir|Adj true
tür|Noun true
marula|Noun false
takılmış|Adj true
.|Punc true

Üvey|Adj true
annesi|Noun true
de|Conj true
ilk|Adj true
evliliğinden|Noun false
olan|Adj true
iki|Num true
kızıyla|Noun false
birlikte|Adv true
gelip|Adv true
eve|Noun true
yerleşmiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

O|Det true
anda|Noun true
sanki|Adv true
büyülenmiş|Noun false
ve|Conj true
o|Det true
marullardan|Noun false
başka|Adj true
şey|Noun true
düşünemez|Noun false
olmuş|Adj true
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
Ya|Conj true
bu|Det true
marullardan|Noun false
yerim|Noun false
ya|Conj true
da|Conj true
ölürüm|Noun false
"|Punc true
demiş|Verb true
kendi|Pron true
kendine|Pron true
.|Punc true

Yemeden|Noun false
içmeden|Noun false
kesilmiş|Adj true
,|Punc true
zayıfladıkça|Noun false
zayıflamış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Sonunda|Adv true
kocası|Noun true
kadının|Noun true
bu|Det true
durumundan|Noun false
öylesine|Noun false
endişelenmiş|Noun false
,|Punc true
öylesine|Noun false
endişelenmiş|Noun false
ki|Conj true
,|Punc true
tüm|Det true
cesaretini|Noun false
toplayıp|Adv true
yandaki|Adj true
evin|Noun true
bahçe|Noun true
duvarına|Noun true
tırmanmış|Noun false
,|Punc true
bahçeye|Noun false
girmiş|Verb true
ve|Conj true
bir|Adj true
avuç|Noun true
marul|Noun false
yaprağı|Noun true
toplamış|Verb true
.|Punc true

Ancak|Conj true
,|Punc true
o|Det true
bahçeye|Noun false
girmek|Noun true
büyük|Adj true
cesaret|Noun true
istiyormuş|Verb true
,|Punc true
çünkü|Conj true
orası|Noun true
güçlü|Adj true
bir|Adj true
cadıya|Noun false
aitmiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kadın|Noun true
kocasının|Noun true
getirdiği|Adj true
marulları|Noun false
afiyetle|Noun false
yemiş|Verb true
ama|Conj true
bir|Adj true
avuç|Noun true
yaprak|Noun true
ona|Verb true
yetmemiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kocası|Noun true
ertesi|Adj true
günün|Noun true
akşamı|Noun false
çaresiz|Adj true
tekrar|Adv true
bahçeye|Noun false
girmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Fakat|Conj true
bu|Det true
sefer|Noun true
cadı|Noun false
pusuya|Noun false
yatmış|Verb true
,|Punc true
onu|Pron true
bekliyormuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
Bahçeme|Noun false
girip|Adv true
benim|Verb true
marullarımı|Noun false
çalmaya|Verb true
nasıl|Adj true
cesaret_edersin|Noun false
sen|Pron true
!|Punc true
"|Punc true
diye|Verb true
ciyaklamış|Noun false
cadı|Noun false
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
Bunun|Pron true
hesabını|Noun false
vereceksin|Noun false
!|Punc true
"|Punc true

Bu|Det true
iki|Num true
kız|Adj true
,|Punc true
yeni|Adj true
kız|Adj true
kardeşlerinden|Noun false
hiç|Adv true
hoşlanmamış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Kadının|Noun true
kocası|Noun true
kendisini|Pron true
affetmesi|Noun false
için|Postp true
yalvarmış|Noun false
cadıya|Noun false
.|Punc true

Karısının|Noun false
bahçedeki|Noun false
marulları|Noun false
nasıl|Adj true
canının_çektiğini|Noun false
,|Punc true
onlar|Pron true
yüzünden|Noun true
nasıl|Adj true
yemeden|Noun false
içmeden|Noun false
kesildiğini|Noun false
bir|Adj true
bir|Adj true
anlatmış|Verb true
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
O|Det true
zaman|Noun true
,|Punc true
"|Punc true
demiş|Verb true
cadı|Noun false
sesini|Noun true
biraz|Adj true
daha|Adv true
alçaltarak|Noun false
,|Punc true
"|Punc true
alabilirsin|Noun false
,|Punc true
canı|Noun true
ne|Adj true
kadar|Adv true
çekiyorsa|Noun false
alabilirsin|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
bir|Adj true
şartım|Noun false
var|Adj true
,|Punc true
bebeğiniz|Noun false
doğar|Verb true
doğmaz|Noun false
onu|Pron true
bana|Pron true
vereceksiniz|Noun false
.|Punc true
"|Punc true

Kadının|Noun true
kocası|Noun true
cadının|Noun false
korkusundan|Noun false
bu|Det true
şartı|Noun false
hemen|Adv true
kabul_etmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Birkaç|Adj true
hafta|Noun true
sonra|Adv true
bebek|Noun true
doğmuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Daha|Adv true
hemen|Adv true
o|Det true
gün|Noun true
cadı|Noun false
gelip|Adv true
yeni|Adj true
doğan|Adj true
bebeği|Noun false
almış|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bebeğe|Noun false
Rapunzel|Noun false
adını|Noun true
vermiş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Çünkü|Conj true
annesinin|Noun true
ne|Adj true
yapıp|Adv true
edip|Adv true
yemek|Noun true
istediği|Adj true
bahçedeki|Noun false
marul|Noun false
türünün|Noun true
adı|Noun true
da|Conj true
Rapunzel'miş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Rapunzel|Noun false
oniki|Num true
yaşına|Noun true
gelince|Adv true
,|Punc true
dünyalar|Noun false
güzeli|Noun false
bir|Adj true
çocuk|Noun true
olmuş|Adj true
.|Punc true

Odasında|Noun false
ne|Adj true
var|Adj true
ne|Adj true
yoksa|Conj true
tavan|Noun true
arasına|Noun true
fırlatıp|Noun false
atmışlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Cadı|Noun true
küçük|Adj true
kıza|Noun true
çok|Adj true
iyi|Adj true
bakmış|Verb true
.|Punc true

Cadı|Noun true
bir|Adj true
ormanın|Noun true
göbeğinde|Noun false
,|Punc true
yüksek|Adj true
bir|Adj true
kuleye|Noun false
yerleştirmiş|Noun false
onu|Pron true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
kulenin|Noun false
hiç|Adv true
merdiveni|Noun true
yokmuş|Noun false
,|Punc true
sadece|Adv true
en|Adv true
tepesinde|Noun false
küçük|Adj true
bir|Adj true
penceresi|Noun false
varmış|Verb true
.|Punc true

Cadı|Noun true
onu|Pron true
ziyarete_geldiğinde|Noun false
,|Punc true
aşağıdan|Noun false
"|Punc true
Rapunzel|Noun false
,|Punc true
Rapunzel|Noun false
!|Punc true
Uzat|Noun false
altın|Adj true
sarısı|Noun false
saçlarını|Noun true
!|Punc true
"|Punc true
diye|Verb true
seslenirmiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Rapunzel|Noun false
uzun|Adj true
örgülü|Noun false
saçlarını|Noun true
pencereden|Noun false
uzatır|Noun false
,|Punc true
cadı|Noun false
da|Conj true
onun|Pron true
saçlarına|Noun true
tutuna|Noun false
tutuna|Noun false
yukarı|Adj true
tırmanırmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
yıllarca|Adv true
böyle|Adj true
sürüp|Noun false
gitmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Bir|Adj true
gün|Noun true
bir|Adj true
kralın|Noun false
oğlu|Noun true
avlanmak|Noun false
için|Postp true
ormana|Noun false
girmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Daha|Adv true
çok|Adj true
uzaktayken|Noun false
güzel|Adj true
sesli|Noun false
birinin|Pron true
söylediği|Adj true
şarkıyı|Noun true
duymuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ormanda|Noun false
atını|Noun false
oradan|Noun true
oraya|Noun true
sürmüş|Noun false
ve|Conj true
kuleye|Noun false
varmış|Verb true
sonunda|Adv true
.|Punc true
Fakat|Conj true
sağa|Noun true
bakmış|Verb true
,|Punc true
sola|Noun true
bakmış|Verb true
,|Punc true
ne|Adj true
merdiven|Noun true
görmüş|Verb true
ne|Adj true
de|Conj true
yukarıya|Noun true
çıkılacak|Noun false
başka|Adj true
bir|Adj true
şey|Noun true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
güzel|Adj true
sesin|Noun false
büyüsüne|Noun false
kapılan|Noun false
Prens|Noun true
,|Punc true
cadının|Noun false
kuleye|Noun false
nasıl|Adj true
çıktığını|Noun true
görüp|Noun false
öğrenene|Noun false
kadar|Adv true
hergün|Noun false
oraya|Noun true
uğrar_olmuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ona|Pron true
bir|Adj true
kardeş|Noun true
gibi|Verb true
davranmak|Noun false
şöyle|Adj true
dursun|Noun false
,|Punc true
bütün|Adj true
ev|Noun true
işlerini|Noun false
üzerine|Noun true
yıkmışlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ertesi|Adj true
gün|Noun true
hava|Noun true
kararırken|Noun false
,|Punc true
alçak|Adj true
bir|Adj true
sesle|Noun true
"|Punc true
Rapunzel|Noun false
,|Punc true
Rapunzel|Noun false
!|Punc true
Uzat|Noun false
altın|Adj true
sarısı|Noun false
saçlarını|Noun true
!|Punc true
"|Punc true
diye|Verb true
seslenirmiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Sonra|Adv true
da|Conj true
kızın|Noun true
saçlarına|Noun true
tutunup|Adv true
bir|Adj true
çırpıda|Noun false
yukarı|Adj true
tırmanmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Rapunzel|Noun false
önce|Adv true
biraz|Adj true
korkmuş|Verb true
,|Punc true
çünkü|Conj true
o|Det true
güne|Noun true
kadar|Adv true
cadıdan|Noun false
başkası|Noun true
gelmemiş|Verb true
ziyaretine|Noun false
.|Punc true

Fakat|Conj true
prens|Noun true
onu|Pron true
şarkı_söylerken|Noun false
dinlediğini|Noun false
,|Punc true
sesine|Noun false
aşık_olduğunu|Noun false
anlatınca|Noun false
korkusu|Noun true
yatışmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Prens|Noun true
Rapunzel'e|Noun false
evlenme|Noun false
teklif_etmiş|Noun false
,|Punc true
Rapunzel|Noun false
de|Conj true
kabul_etmiş|Verb true
,|Punc true
yüzü|Noun true
hafifçe|Adv true
kızararak|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ama|Conj true
Rapunzel'in|Noun false
bu|Det true
yüksek|Adj true
kuleden|Noun false
kaçmasına|Noun false
imkan|Noun true
yokmuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Fakat|Conj true
maalesef|Adv true
bu|Det true
biraz|Adj true
zormuş|Noun false
,|Punc true
çünkü|Conj true
Külkedisi'nin|Noun false
aksine|Adv true
bayağı|Adj true
çirkinmiş|Noun false
her|Det true
ikisi|Noun true
de|Conj true
!|Punc true

Akıllı|Noun false
kızın|Noun true
parlak|Adj true
bir|Adj true
fikri|Noun true
varmış|Verb true
.|Punc true

Prens|Noun true
her|Det true
gelişinde|Noun false
yanında|Noun true
bir|Adj true
ipek|Adj true
çilesi|Noun false
getirirse|Noun false
,|Punc true
Rapunzel|Noun false
'|Punc true
de|Conj true
bunları|Pron true
birbirine|Pron true
ekleyerek|Noun false
bir|Adj true
merdiven|Noun true
yapabilirmiş|Verb true
.|Punc true

Her|Det true
şey|Noun true
yolunda_gitmiş|Noun false
ve|Conj true
cadı|Noun false
olanları|Noun true
hiç|Adv true
farketmemiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ev|Noun true
işleri|Noun false
bittikten|Noun true
sonra|Adv true
bile|Adv true
kızın|Noun true
onlarla|Pron true
oturmasına|Noun false
izin|Noun true
verilmiyormuş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Fakat|Conj true
bir|Adj true
gün|Noun true
Rapunzel|Noun false
boş|Adj true
bulunup|Noun false
da|Conj true
:|Punc true
"|Punc true
Anne|Noun true
,|Punc true
Prens|Noun true
neden|Adv true
senden|Pron true
daha|Adv true
hızlı|Adj true
tırmanıyor|Noun false
saçlarıma|Noun false
?|Punc true
"|Punc true
diye|Verb true
sorunca|Adv true
herşey|Noun true
ortaya_çıkmış|Adj true
.|Punc true

"|Punc true
Seni|Pron true
rezil|Noun false
kız|Adj true
!|Punc true
Beni|Pron true
nasıl|Adj true
da|Conj true
aldattın|Noun false
!|Punc true
Ben|Pron true
seni|Pron true
dünyanın|Noun true
kötülüklerinden|Noun false
korumaya|Noun true
çalışıyordum|Verb true
!|Punc true
"|Punc true
diye|Verb true
bağırmaya|Noun false
başlamış|Adj true
cadı|Noun false
öfkeyle|Noun false
.|Punc true

Rapunzel'i|Noun false
tuttuğu|Adj true
gibi|Verb true
saçlarını|Noun true
kesmiş|Noun false
ve|Conj true
sonra|Adv true
da|Conj true
onu|Pron true
çok|Adj true
uzaklara|Noun true
bir|Adj true
çöle|Noun false
göndermiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

O|Det true
gece|Noun true
cadı|Noun false
kalede|Noun false
kalıp|Noun false
Prensi|Noun false
beklemiş|Noun false
.|Punc true

Prens|Noun true
,|Punc true
"|Punc true
Rapunzel|Noun false
,|Punc true
Rapunzel|Noun false
!|Punc true
Uzat|Noun false
altın|Adj true
sarısı|Noun false
saçlarını|Noun true
!|Punc true
"|Punc true
diye|Verb true
seslenince|Noun false
,|Punc true
cadı|Noun false
Rapunzel'den|Noun false
kestiği|Noun false
saç|Verb true
örgüsünü|Noun false
uzatmış|Noun false
aşağıya|Noun true
.|Punc true

Prens|Noun true
başına|Noun true
neler|Pron true
geleceğini|Noun true
bilmeden|Adv true
yukarıya|Noun true
tırmanmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Prens|Noun true
kederinden|Noun false
kendini|Pron true
pencereden|Noun false
atmış|Adj true
.|Punc true

Fakat|Conj true
yere|Noun true
düşünce|Noun true
ölmemiş|Noun false
,|Punc true
yalnız|Adj true
kulenin|Noun false
dibindeki|Noun false
dikenler|Noun false
gözlerine|Noun false
batmış|Noun false
.|Punc true

Yıllarca|Adv true
gözleri|Noun true
kör|Noun false
bir|Adj true
halde|Noun true
yitirdiği|Noun false
Rapunzel'e|Noun false
gözyaşları|Noun true
dökerek|Noun false
ormanda|Noun true
dolaşıp_durmuş|Noun false
ve|Conj true
sadece|Adv true
bitki|Noun true
kökü|Noun false
ve|Conj true
yabani|Noun false
yemiş|Verb true
yiyerek|Noun false
yaşamış|Verb true
.|Punc true

Akşamları|Adv true
,|Punc true
mutfakta|Noun true
,|Punc true
sönmekte|Noun false
olan|Adj true
ocağın|Noun false
önünde|Noun true
duruyormuş|Noun false
tek|Adj true
başına|Noun true
,|Punc true
ellerini|Noun true
küllere|Noun false
doğru|Adj true
tutup|Adv true
ısınmaya|Noun false
çalışarak|Adv true
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
yüzden|Noun true
üvey|Adj true
kız|Adj true
kardeşleri|Noun true
ona|Verb true
"|Punc true
Külkedisi|Noun false
"|Punc true
adını|Noun true
takmışlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
makalede|Noun false
,|Punc true
Türkçe|Noun true
cümlelerin|Noun false
kural|Noun true
tabanlı|Noun false
bağlılık|Noun false
analizi|Noun false
yöntemi|Noun false
ile|Conj true
ayrıştırılmaları|Noun false
sonucunda|Noun true
elde_edilen|Noun false
başarım|Noun false
sunulmaktadır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Uygulanan|Noun false
ayrıştırma|Noun false
algoritması|Noun false
ve|Conj true
kural|Noun true
yapıları|Noun false
detaylı|Adj true
olarak|Adv true
verilmiştir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Sonuçlar|Noun false
Türkçe'nin|Noun false
Bağlılık|Noun false
Analizi|Noun false
konusunda|Noun true
yapılacak|Adj true
çalışmalara|Noun true
temel|Adj true
olma|Noun true
niteliğindedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bitişken|Noun false
bir|Adj true
dil|Noun true
olan|Adj true
Türkçe'de|Noun false
,|Punc true
sözcüklerin|Noun false
sonlarına|Noun false
ardarda|Adv true
ekler|Noun false
konularak|Noun false
yüzlerce|Num true
farklı|Adj true
sözcük|Noun true
oluşturulabilir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Derlemde|Noun false
bağlılıklar|Noun false
çekim|Noun true
grupları|Noun false
arasında|Noun true
kurulmuştur|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ayrıştırıcı|Noun false
her|Det true
adımında|Noun false
üç|Num true
farklı|Adj true
hareketten|Noun true
birini|Pron true
gerçekleştirir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Türkçe'de|Noun false
bir|Adj true
sözcüğe|Noun false
ait|Postp true
biçimbirimsel|Noun false
özellikler|Noun false
büyük|Adj true
çoğunlukla|Noun true
o|Det true
sözcüğün|Noun false
içerisinde|Noun true
bir|Adj true
çekim|Noun true
eki|Noun true
olarak|Adv true
yer_almaktadırlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ancak|Conj true
bazı|Adj true
ekler|Noun false
sözcüğe|Noun false
ait|Postp true
biçimbirimsel|Noun false
özellik|Noun true
taşımalarına|Noun false
rağmen|Postp true
sözcükten|Noun false
sonra|Adv true
ve|Conj true
sözcükten|Noun false
ayrı|Adj true
olarak|Adv true
yazılırlar|Noun false
ve|Conj true
kendilerinden|Noun false
önce|Adv true
gelen|Adj true
sözcüğe|Noun false
bağlanırlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
bağlılıklar|Noun false
bir|Adj true
önişlemci|Noun false
yazılarak|Adv true
rahatlıkla|Noun true
bulunabilir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Son|Adj true
birkaç|Adj true
yıla|Noun true
kadar|Adv true
,|Punc true
bağlılık|Noun false
analizi|Noun false
yaklaşımlarında|Noun false
yapılan|Adj true
genel|Adj true
varsayımlardan|Noun true
biri|Pron true
cümlelerin|Noun false
izdüşel|Noun false
olmayan|Adj true
bağlılıklar|Noun false
içermeyeceği|Noun false
yönündedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Buna|Pron true
karşın|Postp true
,|Punc true
farklı|Adj true
dillere|Noun false
ait|Postp true
birçok|Det true
derlemde|Noun false
izdüşel|Noun false
olmayan|Adj true
cümlelere|Noun false
rastlanmaktadır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
nedenle|Noun true
son|Adj true
yıllarda|Noun true
bu|Det true
tip|Noun true
cümleleri|Noun false
de|Conj true
içerecek|Noun false
yöntemler|Noun false
üzerinde|Noun true
çalışılmaktadır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
işlem|Noun true
sırasında|Noun true
kullanılan|Adj true
özelliklerin|Noun false
neler|Pron true
olduğu|Adj true
ilerde|Noun true
anlatılmaktadır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ayrıştırıcı|Noun false
,|Punc true
bir|Adj true
cümlenin|Noun false
bağlılık|Noun false
ağacını|Noun false
oluşturmak|Noun true
amacıyla|Noun true
olası|Adj true
bütün|Adj true
bağlılık|Noun false
kombinasyonları|Noun false
içerisinden|Noun false
optimum|Noun false
olanı|Noun true
bulmaya|Noun true
çalışır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bozşahin|Noun false
çalışmasında|Noun false
Türkçe'nin|Noun false
bu|Det true
yapısını|Noun false
detaylı|Adj true
olarak|Adv true
incelemiştir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ayrıştırma|Noun false
algoritmaları|Noun false
,|Punc true
en|Adv true
iyi|Adj true
ağacı|Noun true
oluşturmak|Noun true
üzere|Postp true
ayrıştırma|Noun false
modelinden|Noun false
faydalanırlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Son|Adj true
yıllara|Noun false
kadar|Adv true
,|Punc true
özellikle|Adv true
istatistiksel|Noun false
ayrıştırma|Noun false
alanında|Noun true
birinci|Num true
bölümde|Noun true
çeşitli|Adj true
dinamik|Noun false
programlama|Noun false
algoritmaları|Noun false
kullanılmıştır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
algoritmalar|Noun false
ayrıştırma|Noun false
modelinin|Noun false
kendilerine|Pron true
verdikleri|Adj true
ikili|Noun true
bağlılık|Noun false
olasılıklarını|Noun false
kullanarak|Noun false
,|Punc true
arama|Noun false
uzayında|Noun false
yer_alan|Adj true
en|Adv true
yüksek|Adj true
olasılıklı|Noun false
ayrıştırma|Noun false
ağacını|Noun false
bulmaya|Noun true
çalışırlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
yöntemden|Noun false
tamamen|Adv true
farklı|Adj true
olan|Adj true
bir|Adj true
başka|Adj true
yaklaşım|Noun true
da|Conj true
gerekirci|Noun false
ayrıştırma|Noun false
algoritmaları|Noun false
kullanmaktır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Birçok|Det true
çalışmada|Noun false
bu|Det true
algoritmaların|Noun false
yüksek|Adj true
başarımı|Noun false
raporlanmıştır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Gerekirci|Noun false
ayrıştırma|Noun false
algoritmaları|Noun false
,|Punc true
ayrıştırıcının|Noun false
her|Det true
adımında|Noun false
bir|Adj true
sonraki|Adj true
hareketin|Noun false
ne|Adj true
olacağına|Noun false
ayrıştırma|Noun false
modeli|Noun false
yardımıyla|Noun true
karar_verirler|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
durumda|Noun true
ayrıştırma|Noun false
modeli|Noun false
herhangi|Adj true
bir|Adj true
makine|Noun true
öğrenimi|Noun false
sınıflandırıcısı|Noun false
olabileceği|Noun true
gibi|Verb true
kural|Noun true
tabanlı|Noun false
bir|Adj true
sınıflandırıcı|Noun false
da|Conj true
olabilir|Verb true
.|Punc true

Aşağıdaki|Adj true
bölümlerde|Noun false
kullanılan|Adj true
gerekirci|Noun false
ayrıştırma|Noun false
algoritması|Noun false
ve|Conj true
modeli|Noun false
verilmektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
algoritmalar|Noun false
genelde|Adv true
cümleyi|Noun false
soldan_sağa|Noun false
doğru|Adj true
,|Punc true
iki|Num true
farklı|Adj true
veri|Noun false
yapısından|Noun true
faydalanarak|Noun false
ayrıştırırlar|Noun false
.|Punc true

Ayrıştırma|Noun false
sırasında|Noun true
ayrıştırıcı|Noun false
çekim|Noun true
grupları|Noun false
arasında|Noun true
ilişkiler|Noun true
oluşturmaya|Noun false
çalışır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Türkçe'de|Noun false
sözcükler|Noun true
sonlarına|Noun false
eklenen|Noun false
eklerle|Noun false
farklı|Adj true
tipte|Noun false
sözcüklere|Noun false
dönüşebilirler|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
nedenle|Noun true
yığında|Noun false
ve|Conj true
kuyrukta|Noun false
tutulan|Noun false
elemanlar|Noun false
sözcükler|Noun true
değil|Conj true
çekim|Noun true
gruplarıdır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bağlılıkları|Noun false
sadece|Adv true
sözcükler|Noun true
arasında|Noun true
göstermek|Noun true
ayrıştırma|Noun false
işlemi|Noun true
için|Postp true
yeterince|Adv true
anlamlı|Adj true
bilgi|Noun true
taşımamaktadır|Noun false
.|Punc true

Sözcüklerin|Noun false
kökleri|Noun false
ve|Conj true
biçimbirimsel|Noun false
çözümlemeleri|Noun false
sözcüklerin|Noun false
aşağısında|Noun false
verilmektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Bu|Det true
durum|Noun true
sıfatların|Noun false
genel|Adj true
olarak|Adv true
isimlere|Noun false
bağlanması|Noun false
kuralından|Noun false
ötürüdür|Noun false
.|Punc true

Özellikle|Adv true
kuralların|Noun true
veya|Conj true
istatistiklerin|Noun true
bir|Adj true
derlemden|Noun false
otomatik|Noun false
olarak|Adv true
çekildiği|Noun false
yöntemlerde|Noun false
bu|Det true
tip|Noun true
bir|Adj true
gösterim|Noun false
başarımı|Noun false
önemli|Adj true
ölçüde|Noun true
düşürmektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Türkçe'nin|Noun false
bu|Det true
yapısı|Noun true
literatürde|Noun false
sözcüklerin|Noun false
çekim|Noun true
gruplarına|Noun false
ayrılması|Noun false
ile|Conj true
gösterilmektedir|Noun false
.|Punc true

Her|Det true
çekim|Noun true
grubu|Noun true
ilgili|Adj true
sözcük|Noun true
bölümüne|Noun true
ait|Postp true
biçimbirimsel|Noun false
bilgiyi|Noun true
barındırır|Noun false
.|Punc true

